README.md, before:

# TheBestBookOn.com

![The Best Book On logo](https://thebestbookon.com/static/imgs/best-book-on.png)

## Philosophy

Book preference is a matter of taste, however, many people have similar tastes. One book may be perceived as better than another book in several ways, and in a combinations of these 10 ways (shown below). While we may be able to say one book is better than other if it is outperformed unanimously in every category, it likely makes more sense to compare books under the context of a specific criteria, for instance, its reading level or accuracy. Learn more about this direction at [Open Book Genome Project](https://bookgenomeproject.org).

## Installation

```bash
virtualenv venv
source venv/bin/activate
git clone https://github.com/Open-Book-Genome-Project/TheBestBookOn.com.git
cd thebestbookon.com
pip install -e .
cd /bestbook
python app.py

```

### Setting up the DB

First, create a user and a database for the project to use:

    $ sudo -u postgres psql
    postgres=# create user rex with password 'yourPasswordHere' login createdb;
    postgres=# create database bestbooks owner rex;
    
Next, create a file called `settings.cfg` with the following contents within `bestbook/configs/`. Replace `yourPasswordHere` with the value you choose when creating your pql database. Under the `[security]` section, fill in a value for `secret = ` by generating os.urandom(24) -- see: http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.10/quickstart/#sessions "How to generate good secret keys":

    [server]
    host = 0.0.0.0
    port = 8080
    debug = 1
    cors = 1
    
    [security]
    secret = 
    
    [db]
    user = rex
    pw = yourPasswordHere

#### Creating an Tables

Once your database and user have been created, and the user has the correct permissions, run the following:

    $ cd bestbook
    $ ls  # confirm you're in the package root
    api/ app.py configs/ ...
    $ python
    >>> import api
    >>> api.core.Base.metadata.create_all(api.engine)  # creates tables from sqlalchemy models inherited from api root

## Run server

    $ python app.py
    * Running on http://0.0.0.0:8080/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)

## Resources

- https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/xg3hXCYQPJkwHyik2/the-best-textbooks-on-every-subject
- http://www.tarleton.edu/departments/library/library_module/unit8/8books_lm.htm
- http://lib.colostate.edu/howto/evalbk.html
- http://www2.lib.unc.edu/instruct/evaluate/?section=books


## Similar

- https://fivebooks.com

Commit message:

Auth, database modes, adding form submit endpoints
- Added basic Open Library authentication
- you can now see the data you POST to /ask

README.md, after:

# TheBestBookOn.com

![The Best Book On logo](https://thebestbookon.com/static/imgs/best-book-on.png)

## Philosophy

Book preference is a matter of taste, however, many people have similar tastes. One book may be perceived as better than another book in several ways, and in a combinations of these 10 ways (shown below). While we may be able to say one book is better than other if it is outperformed unanimously in every category, it likely makes more sense to compare books under the context of a specific criteria, for instance, its reading level or accuracy. Learn more about this direction at [Open Book Genome Project](https://bookgenomeproject.org).

## Installation

```bash
virtualenv venv
source venv/bin/activate
git clone https://github.com/Open-Book-Genome-Project/TheBestBookOn.com.git
cd thebestbookon.com
pip install -e .
cd /bestbook
python app.py

```

### Setting up the DB

First, create a user and a database for the project to use:

    $ sudo -u postgres psql
    postgres=# create user rex with password 'yourPasswordHere' login createdb;
    postgres=# create database bestbooks owner rex;

Next, create a file called `settings.cfg` with the following contents within `bestbook/configs/`. Replace `yourPasswordHere` with the value you choose when creating your pql database. Under the `[security]` section, fill in a value for `secret = ` by generating os.urandom(24) -- see: http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.10/quickstart/#sessions "How to generate good secret keys":

    [server]
    host = 0.0.0.0
    port = 8080
    debug = 1
    cors = 1

    [security]
    secret =

    [db]
    user = rex
    pw = yourPasswordHere

#### Creating an Tables

Once your database and user have been created, and the user has the correct permissions, run the following:

    $ cd bestbook
    $ ls  # confirm you're in the package root
    api/ app.py configs/ ...
    $ python
    >>> import api
    >>> api.core.Base.metadata.create_all(api.engine)  # creates tables from sqlalchemy models inherited from api root

## Run server

    $ python app.py
    * Running on http://0.0.0.0:8080/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)

## Resources

- https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/xg3hXCYQPJkwHyik2/the-best-textbooks-on-every-subject
- http://www.tarleton.edu/departments/library/library_module/unit8/8books_lm.htm
- http://lib.colostate.edu/howto/evalbk.html
- http://www2.lib.unc.edu/instruct/evaluate/?section=books


## Similar

- https://fivebooks.com
- whichbooks.net

## Notes

Imagine Mek comes to thebestbookon.com and submits a Request for the best book on "Artificial Intelligence":

Mek will type in a topic into the topic-box and will see a list of topic suggestions and an option to register a new topic in the Topic table.

The Best Book team will be responsible for manually reviewing Topics and keeping them clean and up to date (which means free of duplicates, spelling mistakes, and appropriate / no spam).

Next, there are 2 cases:
1. Aasif browses the /requests endpoint (if that's what we call it) and notices Mek has asked for the best book on "Artificial Intelligence" (i.e. this Recommendation is a *response* to Request).
2. Aasif could have also independently decided they'd like to submit a Recommendation for the best book on "Artificial Intelligence"

Decision: For now, even if Aasif decides to create a Recommendation in *response* to a Request, there actually won't be a link in the database (between the Request and the Response). This relationship will be implied based on the Topic. Because the Request and the Recommendation both share the same Topic... Then we can show anyone who is viewing the Request page all the corresponding Recommendation for/or the same Topic. Similarly, when we're on a Recommendaion page, we can show all Requests for this Topic, as well as *other* Recommendations for this topic.

Interesting idea: Let's say there are 3 *different* Recommendations on "Artificial Intelligence". One of them is by Aasif, one of them is by Lauren, and one of them is by Mary. We *could* let patrons browse any one of these 3 recommendations independently, *or* we could infer a single best book *across* every recommendation on this topic (either based on how many times a book appears as a winner, or because the community upvotes a specific Recommendation).
